The Freemium R&D team oversees the entire user journey on Spotify and ensures we engage with people in innovative ways, every step of the way. Our team grows Spotify’s audience by finding future listeners around the world and delivering the right value to them, at the right time. With research, product development, product design, engineering, and marketing all collaborating in one organization, we’re able to quickly create meaningful features and services for millions of people around the world, resulting in joyful, long-lasting relationships with Spotify.

We are looking for a Data Scientist to join the band and help create and foster understanding of Spotify’s key performance drivers. As a Data Scientist in the Business Intelligence team (and wider Freemium Business Strategy & Insights team) you will analyse internal and external data sources to drive key decisions around the future of Spotify’s strategy. You will study user behavior, critical initiatives, markets, content, and product features, bringing data and insights into every decision we make.

What You'll Do
Perform analyses on large sets of data to extract impactful insights that will help inform senior leadership and drive strategic decisions across the user funnel (acquisition, activation and retention)
Partner closely with other teams to identify and assess fundamental performance drivers that underpin Spotify’s strategy
Communicate insights and recommendations through clear visualizations and presentations
Be an advocate for data-informed decision making, making recommendations about the product performance and product experience
Who You Are
Have at least 3+ years of experience in a similar data scientist role and a degree in science, computer science, statistics, economics, mathematics, or similar quantitative field
Have a deep understanding of numbers and a strong business sense for business performance drivers
Possess the technical competence to perform more advanced analytics, including coding skills (such as Python or R) and analytics tools experience (such as SQL)
You have extensive experience performing analysis with large datasets
You are capable of tackling very loosely defined problems and working independently
You act proactively when required and drive your work autonomously, while also supporting others around you that can benefit from your expertise.
You are a communicative person that values building strong relationships with colleagues and partners and have the ability to explain complex topics in simple terms
You are capable of mentoring more junior data scientists to set them up for success
Where you'll be
We are a distributed workforce enabling our band members to find a work mode that is best for them!
Where in the world? For this role, it can be within the EMEA region in which we have a work location
Prefer an office to work from home instead? Not a problem! We have plenty of options for your working preferences. Find more information about our Work From Anywhere options here .
Working hours? We operate within the Central European time zone for collaboration
We ask that our team members be located within Greenwich Mean time zone, Central European time zone, or Eastern European standard time zone for the purposes of our collaboration hours
Spotify is an equal opportunity employer. You are welcome at Spotify for who you are, no matter where you come from, what you look like, or what’s playing in your headphones. Our platform is for everyone, and so is our workplace. The more voices we have represented and amplified in our business, the more we will all thrive, contribute, and be forward-thinking! So bring us your personal experience, your perspectives, and your background. It’s in our differences that we will find the power to keep revolutionizing the way the world listens.

Spotify transformed music listening forever when we launched in 2008. Our mission is to unlock the potential of human creativity by giving a million creative artists the opportunity to live off their art and billions of fans the chance to enjoy and be passionate about these creators. Everything we do is driven by our love for music and podcasting. Today, we are the world’s most popular audio streaming subscription service with a community of more than 345 million users.